[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hello and welcome.
I'm Lisa Garr.
After you see the images
that you are about to see
and you hear the concepts
that are revealed,
you will look at
life differently.
I absolutely did, and that's
exactly what happened to me.
The question is what are
you willing to do about it?
And that's what we're
discussing today.
I'm talking about a very
unconventional documentary
called "THRIVE," and
it's both educational
and very inspirational.
And joining me are the
filmmakers Foster Gamble
and Kimberly Carter Gamble.
Thank you for joining me,
and thank you for the film.
Really, thank you for the film.
I mean that.
It's amazing what
you've put into it.
How long did it take
you to make this film?
>>FOSTER GAMBLE: I'll let
the producer go for that.
>>KIMBERLY CARTER GAMBLE: It
too us eight years, actually.
It took us eight
years to put together,
the website and the
film, because they really
do go together.
>>LISA: One of the
greatest aspects,
and I think is a guest in
itself, is the graphics.
The graphics are phenomenal.
And we're going to
be showing clips
throughout the entire
show, so you're
going to be able to
see this, but that
must have taken teams
to put together.
And how much-- how many
teams did you have on this?
>>GAMBLE: Well, we had a
wonderful special effects
team from Ashland, Oregon,
called Liquid Buddha Studios.
Goa Lobaugh and
his team up there.
And they were the primary ones
for the 3D computer graphics.
And then we had some
other people, as well,
doing some of the 2D
animations that you'll see.
>>LISA: It's really a
combination of visionaries,
though, that you
needed to put this
together, between the visuals
and your concepts and so forth.
So how long-- first of
all, the movie "THRIVE"
is about, in a nutshell,
if you could give it
to me in a nutshell--
we're going to see clips,
but what is it about?
>>GAMBLE: The title is "THRIVE,
What on Earth Will it Take?"
And it's really an exploration
into what is in the way
of human beings' and our
planet's natural drive
to thrive.
And if we could figure
out what's in the way,
then we get a handle on how
to eliminate that and let
that natural life
impulse come out.
>>LISA: What caused you to ask
those questions in your life?
>>GAMBLE: Well, for me,
from a very young age, when
I look back, I was a peacemaker.
I was breaking up fights
in elementary school
and I could see how people
weren't communicating, weren't
understanding each
other, and so forth.
And as that grew
over time, I realized
that the media was a
really powerful tool
for not only informing
people, but also having people
see each other's points
of view and resolving
the conflicts that
really have us
at the threat of
annihilating life
as we know it on the planet.
>>LISA: And you have
been a peacemaker
in your previous
professions as well where
you were a mediator,
was that what--?
>>GAMBLE: I taught communication
and conflict resolution,
and worked with companies in
Silicon Valley for many years
doing that.
And prior to that I taught
the non-violent martial art
of aikido for 15 years.
So, the latter work was
really an application
in interpersonal--
where the battles really
take place of what I've
been studying on the mat.
>>LISA: Isn't it
amazing when you
have a purpose on this
planet that you're here
to do, you can't do anything
other than fulfill it?
When it's really
that true purpose.
>>CARTER GAMBLE:
And when it's clear.
And getting clear about that
is a big part of the task.
And in fact, I think a
big part of our intention
behind "THRIVE" was
to kind of unpack
a combination of two things
that have been really
important in my
life, having to do
with the combination
of passionate intent
and unconflicted behavior.
Because what I have found
is that passionate intent
is actually a lot
easier to muster
than unconflicted behavior.
So for us, the motivation and
the process of making "THRIVE"
was really how can-- There
are so many people who care
and who are working
in one way or another
to help solve the
problems on this planet.
>>LISA: Millions.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Millions
of people are working,
and yet, things have been
continuing to get worse.
And so, for me, it was
looking at how can we
help clarify-- I'll give an
example of conflicted behavior
in my own life that sort
of led to this, which was,
when I was in college I
was working to stop coal
and nuclear power projects,
which I thought were dangerous.
So, my ritual was that
I would finish work
on Fridays-- we'd have
meetings every other week--
I would drive to the meeting
across town from my house.
And I would, on my way,
stop at Bank of America
and deposit my paycheck.
Then I would go to the meeting.
And I didn't
understand at the time
that banks use their
customers' deposits
to make loans to corporations
so that the corporations can
fund their projects.
>>LISA: I don't think
most of us realize that.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Well,
in fact, Bank of America
was using my deposits to fund
the exact same corporations
that I was, otherwise
then, trying to stop.
So that's conflicted behavior.
And we had an opportunity
to do the study
and kind of get into it.
And so a big part of the
intention for "THRIVE"
is that, on the website
and in the movie,
it's to help us
understand how can we
align our passionate
intent, which so many have,
with unconflicted behavior
so that we actually
get the results that
we're aiming for.
>>LISA: And it's
definitely not designed
for us to understand
that at all.
And that's what the beauty
is about your film, is
it really clearly
and graphically,
it explains and illustrates
how the connections are all
led around the control
of an elite few.
And we've heard about
the 99% versus the 1,
but this really
explains it in detail,
which is-- I'm very,
very grateful for.
And before you did this
movie, you were a journalist?
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Yes, I was.
>>LISA: Great.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Yeah.
I think-- I mean, everything
that I've ever done,
I think, led to what I brought
to bear it in "THRIVE."
In particular, I think
the tone of the movie,
and knowing that we really
wanted to focus on solutions,
and that we also really
wanted the website
to be there as a
tool for people to do
their own further exploration.
>>LISA: This is so
well thought out.
And I appreciate you saying that
because I see a lot of DVDs,
and there are-- 99% of the
DVD is problem and pain.
And I look throughout the
whole DVD for the solution,
and there's, maybe, the last
10 minutes as an afterthought.
And you focus the entire
second half on solutions
because that's what we need.
So, first of all, most
of it is about awareness.
Let's take a look
at the clip here.
This is a kind of an overview
of the movie and how it got
started.
There are some
images in here that
are hard hitting but important.
Take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-Consider what is surely one
of the greatest wonders of all,
how a tiny egg and a single,
irrepressibly plucky sperm
can unleash a process
that brings forth,
in the end, another one of
us, a being of vast ability
and unlimited potential with
a brain capable of complex
and soaring self-reflection,
legs made to dance and run,
fingers nimble enough
to weave a basket,
play a violin, caress a face.
If nature teaches
us anything, it
is that life is meant to work,
and that like every living
thing, our purpose is to thrive.
[BABY CRYING]
-And yet, for the majority
of people on the planet,
life is not about thriving;
it's about surviving,
just trying to hang on.
Is this really the
best we can do?
Did the universe labor for
nearly 14 billion years only to
bring forth a species
that would end up
as an enemy to life itself
and to its own home?
I don't think so.
My name is Foster Gamble, and
I have spent nearly a lifetime
trying to figure
out what happened.
What is happening
that could account
for the staggering agony and
deprivation on this planet?
As a young man,
driven by the misery
I saw and by my fear
for our survival,
I set out on a journey
seeking to answer questions
like is it even possible
for humans to thrive?
If so, why aren't we?
My research led me to places
I never expected to go,
revealing surprising discoveries
that seemed unrelated at first,
but which turned out to
be crucially connected,
as you'll see.
I found a code, a
pattern in nature
that's been embedded in arts and
icons throughout the centuries.
I believe this
code holds the key
to a new source of clean,
sustainable energy that
could completely revolutionize
the way all people live.
I came to understand how our
economic system is rigged.
And I found out what
we can do about it.
My journey revealed ways
we can claim our power
to create liberating, healthy
systems everywhere on earth.
I have realized that
we are not a mistake.
We are simply mistaken.
We've been blinded
to our brilliance,
shorn of our strength,
ignorant of our genius,
unaware of our true
power and magnificence.
But all that is about to change.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: You can see
how many layers there
were in that particular clip.
You have touched on so
many things in this DVD.
So, I want to start
out in the beginning
where you talked about the
energy, the torus energy,
and how that can, in and of
itself, provide free energy
to the entire globe, which I
find difficult to understand.
>>GAMBLE: Well, this is the
kind of core excitement,
to me, of the whole
quest that I've
been on for the last 50 years.
Imagine if the universe
had a blueprint
for building healthy,
sustainable systems.
And imagine if, in
fact, it was everywhere
we looked if we only
knew how to see it.
And it turns out that it does.
This torus, this donut-shaped
whirlpool vortex,
is the only system
which sustains itself
in a continuous medium.
So that's a really big clue
given that our struggle
to survive is how do we create
a sustainable civilization,
sustainable economics,
sustainable access to energy--
>>LISA: And less dependence.
>>GAMBLE: --sustainable
agriculture, everything?
So it turns out, if you
recognize this toroidal form,
and recognize that it is
the pattern of wholeness,
then we can take apart what
are the principles, what
are the aspects of that?
And we can then apply
it in agriculture,
we can apply it in
medicine, we can apply it
in how to access energy in a
clean, free, sorta feminine,
blending way rather
than crashing things,
making explosions, and
trying to control them.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: I just want
to say one thing about it,
too, because the
thing about the torus,
and the notion of
free energy, is
that, in addition to it being a
new concept of abundance, which
I think shifts-- You
know, worldview is often
determined most
of all by science.
And so, to have a whole
different scientific paradigm
of what's possible
is significant.
But in addition to that,
just on a human level,
when you see the amount
of pain and suffering
that's related to energy
and the access to energy,
it's really-- it has to
do with whether or not
you have clean water,
whether or not you have heat,
whether or not you
have hospital care.
Whether or not there are
wars all over the place
fought in the name of energy,
so-- and our environment.
It has so many human,
earthly ramifications that,
as intriguing and interesting
as it is sort of scientifically,
I think it's really important
to ground it in the impact
that something
like that can have
in billions of lives
all over the planet.
>>LISA: It's true because all
the things you just mentioned
are connected.
We look at them as individual
problems in society,
and that they're separated
out, and whereas they're all
connected.
And the one thing
that really does
connect them is this
toroidal energy, which
I had not heard of before.
There's a clip in the movie--
a scientist, Duane Elgin,
talks about this.
And it's really a good clip, and
it gives a great illustration--
again, those graphics--
as to what this is about.
Let's take a look at this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-Evolution means two
to unfold, to roll out.
So the question is what is
the universe rolling out?
And what the universe is rolling
out is self-organizing systems.
And you can see
this at every scale.
A self-organizing system
is a technical term
for just a system
getting ahold of itself,
knowing itself, essentially.
And if we go to
nature, we can look
and we can see these
self-organizing forms
throughout.
We can see it in
the cross section
of an orange, the cross
section of an apple.
We can see it in the
dynamic nature of a tornado.
We can see it in
the magnetic field
around the earth, a
similar magnetic field
around an individual.
We can see it in the structure
of an entire whirlpool galaxy.
We can see it in the
structure of a small atom.
At every scale, throughout
its entire history,
the universe has
one, single project.
It's growing toruses.
The universe is a
torus growing factory.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: Yes, it is.
It is a torus-- I
love his enthusiasm.
He's such a great guy.
So, in understanding
that everything
is centered around this, did
you start to see that everywhere
else in the universe
where you were looking?
I mean, did you start to see--
like attracts like, right?
>>GAMBLE: Well, what they
used to call my obsession
is now a commitment, it's
my lifelong commitment
now that other
people are starting
to see the value of it, as well.
And yes, it's there.
Our entire body is made up
of these atoms and cells,
each of which are in
these toroidal forms.
A torus is a continuous surface
with a hole in the middle.
So our body is actually
a physical torus.
It's surrounded by
an energetic torus.
And then there's
an emotional torus.
The HeartMath--
Institute of HeartMath
is showing now the field of
the heart torus and the brain
torus.
So it's really-- at
first, it's like kind
of a strange perspective.
But then if you actually stand
back and look at it that way,
rather than seeing all
these separate objects,
if we're a continuous sea
of energy, or consciousness,
or love, or whatever term
you want to give to it,
then the division becomes only--
or multiplication becomes only
by division of the wholeness.
So the wholeness
becomes atoms, divides
into atoms, which becomes
molecules, and cells, and all
of life as we know it.
But if you realize
that all of those
are just fractal holograms in
this one continuous pattern,
always centered by
absolute stillness,
and infused with
consciousness, then we're
living in a world of
infinite abundance.
And it's a whole
different reality
than this separate, not
enough to go around, I'm
different from you type of world
that we've been trained in.
>>LISA: The idea is how to
make that practical, how
to bring that into reality.
How does that actually
work in our lives, which
we're going to see
in just a second.
It's so interesting
that you even
ask that question of how would
we have a sustainable energy
system.
And whereas, it relates to from
the galaxy all the way down
to the tiniest atom, and
that there's a through line.
How did you even think to
ask that type of question?
I know that you were raised
in the family from the Procter
& Gamble family, and this
was your grandfather was--
>>GAMBLE: Great,
great grandfather.
>>LISA: Great,
How did you begin to ask those
questions based on the family
or upbringing that you had?
>>GAMBLE: Well, those are two
kind of separate questions
because I was not aware of
that whole family aspect
when I was already
asking these questions.
I was a troublemaker.
I mean, I did well in
school, but in kindergarten,
you know, I was already
asking the questions
that adults usually tell
you to be quiet about.
And when I got to high school
and started studying physics,
it was not OK with me
to not ask the question,
is well, if the universe
is 15 billion years
across-- light years across--
well, what's it floating in?
Well my physics teachers
didn't want to talk about that.
And then they'd
say, well, the atom
is the fundamental
building block.
And I said, well OK,
what's it made up of?
No, we don't talk about that.
And so, I've always
been interested in kind
of the questions that lead to
a dropping of the boundaries
and experience of the
interconnectedness.
So that's been throughout.
Then, in answer to your
question about the family,
I would-- my parents were,
actually, really wonderful,
humble people.
We lived rather modestly.
And my mother was an incredibly
unconditionally loving person,
and my dad was a kind
of a traditional lawyer,
and he was known
for his integrity.
So I didn't realize
how blessed I
was to have that kind of
family that I grew up in.
And it was really
later, in college,
that I started becoming more
aware of there's this Procter
& Gamble thing because I started
becoming aware that I was going
to inherit some money from my
grandparents, which was really
good news, you know.
It turned out I was
going to be able to make
some decisions that everybody
would love to be able to make.
It doesn't mean that
they're easy decisions,
but I was blessed with the time.
I didn't inherit a
tremendous amount of money,
but enough that I could actually
decide what to do with my life
and help some other
people as I went along
if I managed it carefully.
And so, in relation
to the company itself,
I'll always be
grateful for that.
And the company
itself started out
as a very highly
respectable company
making soap and candles.
And as it grew to a
multinational corporation,
then there were people who
came on the board of directors,
and major investors,
and so forth,
who took it the way of the usual
military-industrial complex,
Fortune 500 companies.
And I haven't been,
frankly, proud
of the activities
of the company, what
they've been doing
for a long time.
My own family
hasn't been involved
in the running of the company
for at least three generations.
And our entire clan
has minuscule holdings
in the company.
So we don't have influence
other than that if we go public
on something we can embarrass
them a little bit, which
we've been doing for many years.
For instance, about
animal testing,
and got that reduced over 90%.
We haven't been very
successful in terms
of getting them to create
more organic products.
We've had limited
success in terms
of them cleaning
up the pollution.
But anyway, it's a mixed bag.
And one friend of
mine said, well,
you should just tell people
you're an ancestor of Ivory.
I think it's useful for us
to be aware of our heritage,
but I think it's up
to each one of us
to choose what we do
with our own lives
and, frankly, with our own money
>>LISA: It's interesting.
If you look at it from
an outsider's perspective
over here, where you have
the-- you are the microcosm.
And that is the macrocosm.
And if you look
at your life, you
are here making an
impact and a difference
in companies like those to
bring awareness to all of us--
it's very apropos that
you are both involved
and on the outside
of that company.
From my perspective,
it makes perfect sense.
It makes perfect sense.
>>GAMBLE: Well, it's
useful, particularly
with the whole new occupy
lingo, and so forth,
that I think it's really
important to distinguish.
It's too easy to talk
about the 1% and the 99%.
We'll see, as we go
on in this interview,
and for those people
who have seen "THRIVE,"
that I think it's really
critical to understand
the 0.0001% who are
actually using money
to try to destroy billions
of lives versus people
who've made their money
in a reputable way.
I mean, at what
point does someone
like a Steve Jobs or an Oprah
turn into an evil person
because they've made a
certain amount of money?
It just doesn't
make sense, and it's
going to create the
next us versus them.
Whereas integrity, and
honesty, and compassion,
those types of things can be
really facilitated with money
if it's not being used
to rip people off.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Yeah.
And I think another thing
that comes from the privilege,
that we've been afforded
to have the time, which
really is what we got.
We got time so that-- so many
people ask the questions,
and then they have to go
to work the next morning.
We got to make our work be
following up on the questions,
well, what about
this, and well, so,
where did that money come from?
And let's follow
that over there.
I mean, a huge amount
of time following
the money in that way that if
the story doesn't make sense
you follow the money.
But the other thing,
I think, that we got
was a personal experience
in having enough.
And I think that what
we got to experience,
and which we actually
base a lot of our thinking
in the solutions on is,
when you have enough,
our experience is that
it's actually very natural
to want to do anything you can
for everyone to have enough.
>>LISA: To help others.
Yes.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: That's
just what happens.
The only reason that
anyone isn't doing that
is because they're concerned
about their own survival.
And so, we've had the
personal experience
of seeing how natural
it is to devote our time
and energy on behalf of
making it so other people can
have a chance to thrive also.
And I just believe that
that is human nature,
that people will do that.
>>LISA: That's fantastic,
too, that you're not
in that survival.
You're able to ask
the bigger questions
and bring the information to us,
who are in a little survival.
OK.
So let's take a look
at this next clip
explains the toroidal energy.
And it's a fascinating concept.
This is a great clip that
shows exactly what you're
talking about.
You're able to bring us
these bigger perspectives,
and this shows a little
bit more about the energy,
the torus energy.
Take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-A modern day
inventor, Adam Trombly,
was inspired by Tesla's work
and by the possibilities
of the torus.
Trombly built a dynamo, a
direct current generator
that accessed electrical
power right out of the air.
-We were trying to
demonstrate that by mimicking
the magnetic field of the
planet and rotating this device,
we could actually create
a dynamo that would work.
And in fact, it did
work, and it does work.
So when we contemplate nature,
when we contemplate Jupiter,
or we contemplate a dynamo like
the Earth rotating in space,
we're basically talking
about a magnet which
is rotating in space, and the
lines of flux of the magnet
are pouring down in through
in this toroidal pattern
of the magnetic field.
It's also expanding
and contracting.
It's breathing.
It's taking in the
energy of space,
literally, and transforming it.
Right here in this toroid,
we have enough energy
to transform the entire earth.
And that's not just a
theoretical statement.
It's literally true.
To contemplate the
implications of this
means that every single place
on earth suddenly has power.
Every single person on
earth suddenly has power.
We have universal abundance.
-Trombly had been
invited to demonstrate
one of his generators at the
United Nations and the US
Senate.
But these events were
undermined by the first Bush
administration.
Then the device itself was
taken in a government raid.
Trombly's experience
isn't unique.
Almost every time
I found an inventor
with a promising new technology
in the field of free energy,
he told a similar
story of suppression.
Inventor John
Bedini begin working
with Tesla's theories of
radiant energy decades ago,
and has produced an assortment
of battery charging devices
that generate more energy
than it takes to run them.
He announced that he was
going to start offering them
at low cost.
Soon after that, he
was attacked in his lab
and warned not to
produce the devices.
For his own safety,
he had to let
go of marketing free energy.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: That really happened
to to several different people
that created free
energy like that?
>>GAMBLE: Of the
laboratories that I've
had the privilege to
visit, all but one of them,
that has happened.
And you read throughout
the history of ever
since Nikola Tesla
almost 100 years ago,
this has happened again
and again and again.
The US Patent Office
has confiscated
over 2,000-- the estimates
that I've heard recently
are 5,000 alternative
energy patents.
>>LISA: Well, what's the
explanation for something
like that?
Hasn't anyone ever
challenged that?
>>GAMBLE: Well, they
do it on two bases.
One, they say, anything that
looks like a perpetual motion
machine can't be true.
And so, they'll just--
they won't issue a patent.
In fact, you're not allowed to
continue on the device because
of the second reason,
which is in the interests
of national security.
>>LISA: What does that mean?
>>GAMBLE: Well,
it means, I think,
that if someone were to
have a free energy device,
they might be able to
make it be very dangerous,
or propel rockets at speeds,
or fighter jets at speeds
that we couldn't contain,
or something like that.
But I think that
there's a story that
makes a lot more
sense than that one.
Because our national security,
I think, is most at risk right
now because of the wars that
were fighting, where thousands
of young people are losing
their lives in our own military,
not to mention millions
of innocent civilians
in these other
countries, fighting
over oil, which we don't need
if we let these devices out.
And, they're
polluting the skies,
and causing asthma,
and all that thing.
So that's where we need to
step back and look at, well OK,
what is a story that would
make sense out of all this?
I imagine we'll get into that.
>>LISA: Yes, we definitely will.
But is there any
of these devices
anywhere that have
been marketed,
or are in any place in
our sectors, anywhere?
>>GAMBLE: In my experience,
there are none on the market
right now.
We'd all be hearing about it
very rapidly if they were.
>>LISA: But they work.
>>GAMBLE: Yes.
>>CARTER GAMBLE:
Oh yeah, they work.
We've both had an
opportunity to see them.
And once you see them, then--
people can say what they say,
but it's absolutely the
case that they exist.
>>LISA: And they create
energy within themselves,
non-combustible energy
within themselves?
>>GAMBLE: Well the key is that
when we get up in the morning,
we don't plug into
the wall socket
in order to get our energy.
We are energy devices.
And we are in a sea
of infinite energy.
So the key is rather than
exploding things in order
to access that energy, what
if we do what women are so
good at, is blending and leading
and seeing what nature does,
which is it spirals in these
toroidal forms and dances,
basically.
And then to create a device
which mimics that dance.
And then tune it like
you would a guitar,
and at certain
octave frequencies--
It's different with various
devices, depending on materials
and so forth, but
basically, you'd
come into resonance with the
field of energy that you're in,
and it starts pouring out
clean, abundant electricity.
>>LISA: Unlimited.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Yeah.
And the thing about
it, when you see it,
is that-- well, two things.
One is it's a white light;
it's a cold, white light.
It's not hot, yellow
electricity that we're used to.
So it's really a whole
different feel to it.
And when you plug into
it, actually, more energy
comes through.
So that you're tap-- that's
sort of how you can feel it,
that you're tapping something
that will just come the more
you're tapping it.
And in terms of the whole notion
of perpetual motion, you know,
the parts that make up
the devices will wear out.
That's true.
It's the source of energy
which is infinite and abundant.
And so that's the
distinction there.
>>LISA: So could this really
power our entire world
as we know it?
It really could?
>>GAMBLE: It all depends on
the scale that you build it.
You can have little one
inside your clock radio,
you can have one that
runs your house--
>>LISA: Your car.
>>GAMBLE: --you can have
one that runs your car.
You can have one where you
do some illustrations of how
you could have one run entire
communities in the film.
>>LISA: That is fascinating.
So it's the scale.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Yeah.
And one of the things that
we did by bringing this out
in our movie and on the
website, thrivemovement.com,
is that one way to protect
people-- One of the men
that we had planned to talk
to for the movie, Maloff,
he was actually murdered before
we were able to interview him.
It's dangerous at this
time for the inventors.
But the more people who know
about it, and who call for this
and put this conversation
on the table,
the more it becomes something
that we have to reckon with,
because the inventors are there.
They're all over the world
in garage laboratories
and hidden now for
their own safety.
But there have been people
funding the development
of this, not because it's been
a good investment for them,
but because they know what
can happen on our planet
as a result of it.
And so, it exists.
We've seen it.
And one of the things
that we really encourage
is spread the movie because
it brings this conversation
up, which then makes
it safer for people.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
I've seen the same
thing on my radio show
in the cancer societies and the
cures, and so forth, out there.
You're bringing this
information out in a huge way,
in a viral way online
and in the movies.
How do you plan on
staying protected?
>>GAMBLE: Well, first of
all, we're not actually
the inventors.
Stopping us, hassling
us, at this point,
is only going to bring
more attention to the story
that we're telling.
And what we're doing is
tying the dots together.
And in a sense, we've
already done that.
As Kimberly likes to say, the
toothpaste is out of the tube
now.
And we've made it very clear,
if somebody hassles us,
the whole world will--
Millions of people
have seen "THRIVE" already.
Millions of people will find
out about the dynamics that
are going on with us instantly.
One of the great things
about the internet
these days is that we're
being very transparent
about everything, including
if anybody hassles us,
which, fortunately,
they haven't so far.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: And the one
thing about the free energy
is-- "THRIVE's" out
in 10 languages now.
It'll be out in 16
languages within a week.
People have been voluntarily
translating it into languages
to get into their own cultures.
And these inventors,
an awareness of this,
is throughout the world.
So, that's another
thing that's possible
by being so international,
and to have this outreach,
is that there's the
cross-pollination of people
who know different parts
of it and can share.
>>LISA: And it'll bring
out other inventors
to come forth and say,
I understand this now,
I want to combat the system.
So you had mentioned
something earlier
about why doesn't this exist,
why does this energy not exist,
and that they
couldn't get patents.
So you started to
follow the money,
follow where-- why the patent
industry wouldn't give them
patents, why this
got suppressed.
And that is shown very
clearly, this next clip.
I want you to see that.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-As difficult as
it was for me, I've
come to an inescapable
and profoundly disturbing
conclusion.
I believe that an elite group
of people and the corporations
they run have gained control
over not just our energy, food
supply, education,
and health care,
but over virtually every
aspect of our lives.
And they do it by controlling
the world of finance,
not by creating more value,
but by actually controlling
the source of money.
When I followed
the money, I found
that it took me up the
levels of a pyramid.
Here we are, at
the bottom level,
going about our daily lives.
Above us is
government, people who
are given a monopoly on force
and use it to tax and control
us, whether or not we agree.
But who controls them?
At the next level
are the corporations.
Many would say that it is now
corporations, and not nation
states, that rule the world.
They call it a corporatocracy.
To acquire the world's resources
and control the markets,
this corporatocracy must
have access to cheap money.
The big corporations get
their loans at special rates
from the big banks,
which means that those
who control the major
banks, the monied elite,
ultimately control
the corporations.
As I followed the
money, I've learned
that almost everything I
once believed about money
is simply not true.
-It's interesting how
few questions we actually
ask about very everyday things,
like when we go into a bank
and we ask for a loan, say
$50,000, 50,000 pounds,
what actually happens?
You see, most people
live their lives
based on a kind of vague
image of what happens.
What actually happens is
you ask for 50,000 pounds.
They type into your
account 50,000 pounds.
That's all they do.
They don't mint any coins,
they don't print any money,
they don't move any
precious metal anywhere.
They just put 50,000
pounds into your account
on a computer screen.
From that moment, you
start paying interest
on money that has never, does
not, and will never exist.
-It turns out that
banks actually
have about nine times
as much money loaned out
as they have on reserve
in their vaults.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: Does this-- this
explains why the bad bank loans
happen, why there's
so many foreclosures?
It explains so much
that, basically,
if everything that we
have, as far as we know it,
as money is just a number typed
into a computer screen, then
does it really exist?
>>GAMBLE: Well, the
computer screen exists,
the numbers exist,
and then there's
the reality that we live in.
But the relationship
between them is not honest,
and it hasn't been
for 400 years.
It's just that this banking
scam, this centralized fiat
money, which means making
up money out of nothing,
and then fractional reserve,
where the bankers get
to make up money and loan out
10 times as much as they have.
Imagine if everyone
got to do that.
It's basically as if you were
playing Monopoly with someone,
and one person is getting to
make up money and the others
aren't.
So, a lot of people
like to think
that money is evil, or at
least the root of all evil,
or something like that.
And money is just a
medium of exchange,
or a storehouse of value.
It's when you have a
dishonest money system, that's
when people's lives
start getting destroyed.
And that's why the
elite, who've had
this scheme for so many
decades, so many centuries,
don't want to have the
money backed by gold.
They don't want to have the
money back by real commodities,
real goods and services--
>>LISA: Because they can't be.
>>GAMBLE: Because
they can't control it.
An economy isn't something
someone decides and controls,
it's the individual
free choices of millions
of people about what they're
buying and selling and making
all that stuff.
And the people who want
to control everything
have to control that.
And in order to control that,
they have to control the money.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Right.
And one of the
things we did learn
is that it's not as complicated
as it's made to seem.
And so, part of what we
tried to do in the movie
is to really break it down
so that people can understand
the basics that you
need to understand.
And the whole reason for
getting into the money,
and into this
agenda, is so that we
can understand what's in
the way of our thriving.
That's the question
we started out with.
And that's the
whole point of this,
are to have leverage solutions.
And in order to be
leveraged, we have
to understand-- have an accurate
assessment of what's going on.
And when you look
at what you can
make people do when
they need to survive,
then you can see
what's in the way.
And so that's the point of
getting into all of this.
And I think that we've done
a good job of making it
so that people can kind
of wrap around the basics
and then come up with
what we can do about it.
Like I said about the banking,
when you understand what you're
funding, then you
can stop funding it.
>>LISA: I love how
you always bring
this back to a practical place.
I really love your grounded
perspective, Kimberly,
because I can get very
stuck in the details,
and understanding it, and
down that rabbit hole.
But you always have a
way of just bringing us
back to the whole
perspective of why we're
having this conversation
in the first place.
It does help, however,
to understand,
as you have illustrated
in the film, the details
on a high level picture, on
a very simple, layman's terms
so that we can understand
this a little bit easier.
This next clip shows
about the Federal Reserve,
which I didn't quite understand.
And it explains it very clearly.
Take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-So we've got the Federal
Reserve, a privately owned
corporation with a
monopoly on creating money,
but with no accountability,
backed up by a government
with a monopoly on force.
The country got sold on the
Fed as an institution that
would help stabilize the
economy and remain independent
of politics.
But in fact, in close to
a century of existence,
the Federal Reserve has
done just the opposite.
Since they took charge, we've
been robbed through inflation.
And the purchasing
power of the dollar
has declined more than 96%.
And the wealth gap makes
it clear most of the money
is going to a very few.
Only 16 years after the
Federal Reserve was in power,
America experienced
the Great Depression.
My research revealed that
before the big crash in 1929,
the elite bankers pulled their
money out of the stock market.
After the crash,
they used that money
to buy up cheap stocks
in smaller failing
banks for pennies on the dollar.
Among the bankers who
consolidated their wealth
this way were the Rothschilds,
Rockefellers, and Morgans.
A similar scenario played out
in the 2008 financial collapse,
with the same
bankers benefiting.
In the years leading
up to the collapse,
the biggest banks, including
Bank of America, Citigroup,
and Chase, controlled by the
Rothschilds, Rockefellers,
and the Morgans, were
bundling and trading
bad loans that they knew
would eventually fail.
It's like putting a
rotten oranges in a box
and selling them as grade AAA.
The bundlers of the debt knew
it was only a matter of time
before someone
would open that box
and see that the
content was worthless,
since they were
the ones who packed
the boxes in the first place.
When the rotten oranges-- what
we hear about as unsound loans,
derivatives, and
credit default swaps--
were finally discovered,
everyone was impacted.
People lost their homes,
their jobs, their businesses,
and their retirements.
Meanwhile, the biggest
banks who created
the problem in the first
place were the ones who got
bailed out.
Why is that?
Why would the Federal Reserve
give trillions to the banks
even though the
majority of Americans
were against bailing them out?
And why not help
those most in need
rather than the perpetrators
of the financial collapse?
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: Do you think
this was the plan
from the very beginning?
Was this the way that it was set
up from the beginning of time?
Not of time, but--
What do you think?
>>GAMBLE: I think,
in every culture,
there are some people whose
psyches are distorted enough
by what they've gone through in
their childhood, or whatever,
that they become obsessed with
controlling other people's
lives because they are very
afraid and caught in illusion.
>>LISA: Not in just
this country, in many--
>>GAMBLE: All over the world
and throughout history.
So I think it's
important that a culture
be able to heal them but not
give them the nuclear weapons
and control over the government,
or the money, or the military,
or that type of thing.
I think when the original
banking scheme started,
it was just like
a clever notion,
like we illustrated
in the movie, where
the goldsmiths realize
that they could make loans
on money that they
didn't actually have.
And so they just did
it, and got away with it
for a long time because they
kind of kept it to themselves.
And then, I think, that
the money people basically
got together with
the control people,
with the politicians, who
wanted to control other people's
lives, and basically--
and a good example of it
is with the Federal
Reserve, where
they made a deal--
OK, we'll make up
money for you-- The politicians
said, we'll let you,
the bankers, make up the money
as long as you give us whatever
we need when we
want to go to war,
or give our crony capitalists
some subsidies, or whatever.
And from that point on,
when a small group of people
get the power over both
the force and the money,
then it's going to rise
to tyranny every time.
It always has
throughout history.
So that's where
the solutions need
to undermine that and grow
a more organic system.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: And I
want to say something here
about understanding
this system and naming
the perpetrators of it.
The purpose isn't to create an
us and them, and they're bad
and we're not, or
anything like that.
The point is-- I feel like we
have a terminal illness going
on on our planet right now.
And to understand
how is it operating
allows-- If somebody just
says, you are really sick, what
do you about that?
And honestly, before
I had an understanding
and before we did the work
that went into "THRIVE,"
that was sort of my
take on the world.
It's like, we are really sick.
Things are wrong
all over the place,
even though people are
innovative and good,
in my experience, and resilient,
and caring, and cooperative.
The fact is
everything's in decline.
And now, having this
understanding, it's like, OK.
So it's very important to
understand that this isn't-- we
didn't do this to
name some people,
and this is where all
the bad comes from.
I believe that they have a
belief that the two options are
either to control
or be controlled.
That's their worldview.
And to choose to be the
controller in that situation
is understandable.
But, like Foster says, you
don't put them in power;
you heal them.
You obsolete them from power.
And our job, if
we're here to heal,
and I believe we have
to be here to heal,
is to understand
how they operate,
look at it
realistically, and go,
this money system is
completely corrupt,
and it is ruining our planet
and the billions of lives on it.
And we need to name that.
We need to come to
terms with it so that we
can create the
solutions that are
sufficient to the task at hand.
That's the whole point
of uncovering this.
It's not to make anybody wrong.
It's to understand
how is it operating,
get them out of these
positions of power,
and work with our money system
to create an honest money
system so that, in fact,
more people can have a chance
to thrive.
>>LISA: It's very important
to get out of the denial
that we might be in, or even
the glaze that we're under,
and the subconscious glaze
that we are intentionally
being put under, by being
aware of these types of things.
And I think it's important.
But for me, in the
back of my mind,
I keep saying, what does
this help me with right now,
right here, today?
What do I do when I'm
done watching this film,
and then I go to cook
dinner for my family?
Knowing this information
weighs on me so heavily.
There is the new world
order being spoken about.
There is the
conspiracy theories.
There are all sorts
of things mentioned
in this film that
can be so daunting.
And it's very, very
important to understand
that there is an
intentionality out there
to suppress my
knowledge of this.
And that's really great that you
bring this about in the film,
but I need to know
what I can do.
What can I do today?
When you were going through
all this information, when
you were uncovering
all of this, how
did you go through
that experience?
What was that like
for you personally?
>>GAMBLE: Well, it was very
challenging, and especially
because we were getting
pieces one at a time,
and just one piece of
bad news after another.
It was like, oh no,
they wouldn't do that.
Oh, my gosh, they
are doing that.
So, one of my biggest concerns
in putting this film out
was to condense what had taken
me so many years to process,
intellectually and emotionally,
to put that out in two hours.
How are people going
to handle that?
Well, the good news is people
are saying, even though it's
challenging, that
they're really grateful
and that people are handling it.
And so I'm asking
them, how come you
can handle it so much
faster than I could?
And what the feedback
we're getting
is one, because we're
telling a coherent story,
whereas, we just have random
pieces that looked disastrous.
So we're tying them together
into a story that makes sense
more than the corporate media,
what they're telling us.
And secondly, it's
completely wrapped
in viable, grounded
solutions, things we
can actually do about it.
>>LISA: Yes, very
important, and we're
going to get to those solutions.
And I did mention that there
is a mention in the film
several times about
a new world order.
What would that
give the elite few?
What would a world order do?
>>GAMBLE: Well, the key
distinction, for me,
about a new world order--
because I mention in the film
that, given our predicament,
it sounds like a good thing
to have a new world-- you
know, some order in the world
and have it new because
the current one's not
serving many people.
But the key thing is
that the new world
order that you hear George
Bush talk about, and Henry
Kissinger, and the leaders of
the countries who are involved
in this, over and
over again, that
is a whole different order.
And that, basically, is
a global police state
with the bankers in charge.
And then using the UN to
structure all of the states
to be managed, and use
NATO as the police force,
and create a one world currency
where you can neutralize anyone
very quickly.
That's their idea of
the new world order
that they can,
supposedly, control.
And that's why we have the quote
from David Rockefeller praising
the Chinese system under which
70 million people, civilians,
were killed during peace time.
Because you can look
at their economy,
it's a combination
of what they're
calling authoritarian democracy,
or authoritarian capitalism,
where, basically,
they control people.
They get them to work
for them, then take
the advantage of
capitalism, but then
have this umbrella of domination
over everybody's lives.
And that's what we're
trying to wake people up to
is that there is another
option, which actually
has to do with
freedom for everyone.
And that throughout history--
the more of that we have,
the more prosperity and
security that everybody has.
>>LISA: Well, when we come back,
we're going to talk about some
of the solutions
around this, and some
of the ideas that we can--
Awareness, I always say,
is 80% of the solution.
And you have brought
awareness about.
And yes, we're very lucky
to be able to digest it
in the first hour of your
film, which is great,
you give us an hour on this.
You spent eight years on it.
So when we come
back, we're going
to get into some
of the solutions
that the movie "THRIVE" presents
with Kimberly and Foster
Gamble.
We'll be right bck.
Welcome back.
I'm Lisa Garr, and my guests
are Kimberley and Foster Gamble.
And we're talking about
the movie "THRIVE."
And I mentioned earlier
that these films-- the clips
that we're showing
you will definitely
change the way that
you look at your life.
And it has definitely
done that for me.
But more so than just a
movie, this is a movement.
And you can also see
the movie, for free,
at the website, which
is thrivemovement.com,
And it's so much
more than a website.
You have definitely
put a lot into this.
There was a piece in the film
that impacted me greatly.
And it was about the cashless
society that we live in.
And I think this is a very
important clip to show.
Take a look at this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-You want to change
society in a way
that you know that
if you do it openly
you know you're going to
get an adverse reaction.
So you don't do it openly.
You play problem, reaction,
solution, stage one.
You create a problem.
It could be a terrorist
bomb, it could be a 9/11,
it could be a run
on a currency, it
could be a stock market
collapse, a government
collapse.
You tell the people your version
of A, who did it, and B, why.
And at this point,
problem, reaction,
solution would
fall down if we had
a media that was in any
way related to journalism.
Instead, the mainstream media
is a public relations office
for the official
version of events.
-It turns out
President George W Bush
was right about
Saddam Hussein hiding
weapons of mass destruction.
-The virtually only way
or source of information
that the public have
about this event
is from the mainstream media.
And what they're looking at
stage two of problem, reaction,
solution is the reaction of
outrage of key, key, key fear.
And they want the public
to say to the government,
something must be
done, this can't go on.
What are you going
to do about it?
And this allows
stage three, which
is those who've created
the problem glean
that public reaction
with a false story
to then openly offer the
solutions to the problems
they have themselves created.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: It is true in
many ways, the media
is owned by the government.
And it is such a powerful media.
It is very powerful.
It shapes the way that
people think about things.
It gives us slants.
That's why I love free
speech media, which
is I what I'm part of and
what you're a part of.
So, explain that a
little bit of what
you were talking
about in terms--
and what David Icke
was talking about.
>>GAMBLE: Well, the whole notion
of this sort of imminent police
state can sound like a bad B
movie, or something like that.
And it's not something we
much want to think about.
Or, you can think, well,
that's one of those conspiracy
theories.
But if you look,
daily, in the headlines
you see that President
Obama signed the NDAA, which
allows for the indefinite
detention, rendition,
even assassination, of
American citizens for no even
probable cause other than
that they are a suspect,
or that they dissent with
the government opinion.
Then on March 16, he quietly
signed a dictatorial executive
order, which gives him
the power to take over--
in case of national
defense needs--
to take over, basically, the
resources of the country.
It's called the National
Defense Resources Preparedness.
And that allows him to take
over labor, take over food,
to take over the resources, and
even-- I was reading carefully
through the document--
it brings back
in the possibility of
initiating a draft like that.
>>LISA: A draft?
>>GAMBLE: A draft.
A part of this is he can take
over the Selective Service,
and, basically, do what he
wa-- So this just happened.
One person was able
to sign this thing.
Then the NSA is just
completing a $2 billion
project, a one-million
square foot facility in Utah,
which, they admit, is
going to be collecting
all of our emails, all
of our phone calls,
all of our Google
searches, in one place.
Then the Homeland Security just
purchased 450 million rounds
of these very expensive,
very dangerous hollow point
.40 caliber bullets.
And when pressed on why would
Homeland Security be doing
anything-- They said,
for target practice.
Well, even the
military doesn't really
use those kind of bullets
for target practice.
So what is the story that makes
any sense of this preparation?
When the IMF and the
World Bank has collapsed
over 70 countries around the
world, there's always blowback,
always people take
to the streets.
And that's usually
crushed, and they get on
with taking over the
resources of the planet.
And people think, well,
that couldn't happen here.
Well, look what's
happening in Greece,
look what's happening in
Europe, and it absolutely
can happen here.
And these are what
the headlines look
like leading up to
something like that.
>>LISA: So, I mean, this is
all questions, questions.
Why would something
like this happen?
How could something
like this happen
without us knowing about it?
Why isn't this more in the news.
Well, maybe because the
media is bought and paid for.
But let's-- I mentioned that
we have to get to the solutions
around this.
We could spend hours,
and it gets daunting.
But I need to know, again,
I'm back to that question
of what can we do?
Where is the hope?
But it has to be
practical, plausible hope.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: I just want to
say one last comment on where
we were, which is
that one thing we
did with "THRIVE,"
the movie-- and it's
available at
thrivemovement.com--
is that we had all of
the facts corroborated.
Because just having
like-- these are facts.
March 16, Obama signed
that executive order.
You can look in Bluffdale,
Utah, and it's happening there.
Homeland Security admits
buying these bullets.
So these aren't like things
that are being made up.
These are facts, and you can
see them under Foster's blog
or under the fact check
part of our website.
And the point for
doing that is to say,
look, if these are
the facts, then how
can we develop the
solution strategies that
are commensurate
with these facts.
And that's why we focus on
economic responses and things
like that.
So I just wanted to say that
this isn't just like something
that we heard about.
We track this stuff,
and then we have
it corroborated third hand.
And that's what went
into making the movie.
And the point of it
isn't to scare us;
it's to say, OK, if this is
happening, now what we do?
So I'm happy that we can
get into this part of it
because that was the--
>>LISA: Thank you--
>>CARTER GAMBLE:
--whole point of--
>>LISA: --for saying that.
I mean has anyone ever
refuted the facts?
>>GAMBLE: No.
If anybody can send
in any evidence
of any kind of
increase in accuracy,
we'll immediately
make that change,
which we have on
a couple of items.
We've got a fact check revision,
and we look forward to that.
We're interested
in what's true, not
defending some past position.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: And nothing
about any of this particular
part that we've discussed
has been found to be--
>>LISA: And these are not
just your perspectives, right?
This is a wide amount of
people's perspectives.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Yeah.
And one thing I found, as
we've travelled around,
and as the movie's been
seen by millions of people,
is that a lot of people know a
little bit about it, you know.
And so our job, really, was to
kind of cohere it and say, OK,
so now what, you know?
And really, we made a
choice in making this movie
to address people as the
intelligent, capable people
that we believe they are.
And we have found
that that's, in fact,
how people are responding.
They're just getting on with it.
It's like.
OK.
I got it, and now let's move on.
And really, there are
cities all over the world
waking up and sort
of being models
for taking on one aspect or
another of a solution strategy.
>>LISA: It's very,
very important
that we do have some type
of plan, strategy, action.
And we can.
The power is in the
hands of the people.
We are the ones that
make the difference.
It's very, very
clearly displayed
in this clip with
Elisabet Sahtouris.
Take a look at this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-The agenda of the ruling
elite is the product
of a destructive worldview
based on their beliefs
that there's not
enough to go around,
that some people are more
deserving than others,
and that their own safety
depends on maintaining
absolute control
over the rest of us.
In short, their worldview is
based on scarcity and fear.
But as powerful as they are,
the architects of the new world
order cannot create their
dreadful vision without
our collusion.
To stop them, to render
their agenda obsolete,
we have to wake up.
We have to take action.
-This is like the last
effort of a particular phase
of civilization.
It's its last gasp, really.
And I often use the metaphor
of the caterpillar becoming
the butterfly because
a caterpillar crunches
its way through the ecosystem,
it's very destructive,
it eats 300 times
its weight in a day
until it's so bloated that
it hangs itself up and goes
to sleep.
And its skin turns into
a hardened chrysalis,
and then in its body you
get these imaginal cells--
biologists actually
call them that-- forming
within the caterpillar's body.
The caterpillar's
body then, actually,
becomes a nutritive
soup for those cells.
But what's important about
that metaphor is that the old
and the new coexist for awhile.
And it's the job
of the caterpillar
to preserve its life.
It's a desperate
government that we have now
trying to control oil
in the Middle East,
and wanting now to
promote nuclear energy,
and all these things.
They know better, but
they have to play out
the role of
protecting themselves.
It's their job.
And if you love
butterflies, you don't
go around stepping
on caterpillars.
So we can't hate them,
it doesn't do any good.
But if you want
alternative energy,
you don't ask an oil
economy administration
to produce it for you.
We have to produce it.
We imaginal cells
have to show that it's
cheaper, more efficient,
and more effective.
Our job is to build
the new world.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: And our job here is
to bring about solutions, just
like Elisabet was doing
about what can be done.
What is currently being done?
Can you share with me
some of the initiatives
that are happening?
There are over a million
environmental organizations
that people can tap into.
There is a critical mass that
is happening there that's
creating a tipping point of
awareness, which we know about.
What else?
What else is being done?
>>GAMBLE: Well, first,
I would frame it
as saying that there are
overarching strategies, which
we need to understand, like
getting an honest money system,
restoring polyculture, organic
farming, things like that.
But people go, oh
geez, how's little old
me going to do
something like that.
It's important that we have
those large strategies,
but then that it get reduced
down to individual tactics
that each of us can
do in our daily lives,
that for most people don't
take a lot of time or money.
So we've highlighted
on the website kind
of our favorite
top 10 that starts
with get informed and speak
up, and share it with others.
And that's step number one.
And even that takes some
time and some courage
to be willing to talk
about uncomfortable topics.
>>LISA: And there's
something that, actually,
one of the clips that talks
about these free-GMO zones,
which I had no idea about.
And this is a global movement.
This is fantastic.
Take a look at this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-In India we have
thousands of villages
which are now freedom zones.
So we will not accept patenting.
We will not cooperate with
it just like Gandhi did not
cooperate with salt laws.
We will not allow chemicals and
genetically engineered crops
to enter our
ecosystems because they
threaten this biodiversity.
And this freedom movement,
which is a freedom movement
for all species, not just
for individual humans,
is something that's
growing so fast
and is reflected in the movement
for GMO-free zones in Europe.
I turn my back and
there's another thousand
GMO-free zones.
90% of Italy, 90% of Austria.
The freedom zones around
the seed, around food,
are creating massive shifts.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK[
>>CARTER GAMBLE:
One thing I wanted
to say, this is
continuing to grow.
Marin County, California,
is now GMO-free.
And one of the things
that we're doing
is we're coming out with
an app early this summer
that will actually allow the
cities around who are engaged
in different solution
strategies to share
best practices with each
other and to find out
what each other's doing.
So that anybody who wants
to set up a GMO-free zone
can then get some of the back
end, whether it's the flyers,
or how they dealt
with the media,
or whatever they did in order
to-- the legislation that
had to happen in
their local community.
So that that's one
of the ways that we
can allow this to
spread faster is
by having everybody who's
working on it actually
get to know about
each other's efforts.
>>LISA: And see,
that's very important.
I mean, the genetically
modified foods, somehow, you've
tied back to the government
control, haven't you?
>>GAMBLE: You follow
the money in the food,
and it goes back
to the Rockefeller
initiative with the Green
Revolution, and so forth.
And it turns out that they
shifted all of agriculture
to be based on oil because
they were controlling oil.
And that's what got us into
this cycle of pesticides,
and herbicides, and fertilizers.
Not just because they
can make more money
on it, which they do,
but also because food
is used to control people.
And that's where it's become
so important to understand
the agenda because, ultimately,
it's not about money.
These people can print money.
In between--
>>LISA: Which has been done.
>>GAMBLE: There's
a lot of people
who are doing it for money, but
the ultimate agenda is actually
about controlling
other people's lives.
And that's why we
need to wake up to it.
>>LISA: Take for example, the
school systems and the food
in the school systems.
The lunch programs
are horrific, filled
with packaged, processed foods
laden with chemicals and fat.
And it is dumbing down
children, who are already
in a dominated system
of education right now.
So this is something
that has to be-- Again,
it has to happen with the moms.
It has to happen
with the networks
of the people in the
communities to make this happen.
So an app, great idea,
great solution, awareness.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Yeah.
And there are just all
kinds of fun strategies.
I remember working on the food
once for the Berkeley food
system in the
elementary schools.
And one of the things we
did was we got on the radio
every morning during
commuter traffic
and named the menu for the day
for the kids in the school.
And we said, if you don't
feel good about this,
call this number.
And it turned out that
everybody got organized,
and they had all kinds of
local farms, and restaurants,
and people kick in and
start to change the system.
So people are ready to act.
They just need to
know what to do.
And we do have these top 10
actions, like Foster mentioned,
at thrivemovement.com.
And also now, this way for
people to share best practices.
I am more encouraged
than I've ever been.
I'm more optimistic.
People really are ready,
and they're already
doing all kinds of things.
And one of the things is,
with the media the way
it is, we don't get
to know about it.
But there is so
much good that is
happening all over the place.
And we're not alone.
None of us working
on it is alone.
And the thing,
when you know what
it is that you're here
to do, and you realize
that you don't
have to do it all.
Nobody can do it
all, but you can
tap into what's your
offering, do that,
and then it joins with everyone
else doing their offering.
>>LISA: Oh, you offer so many
solutions on the website,
as well.
Here's a clip that shows
you the vast project
that the thrivemovement.com
website is.
Take a look at this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-We've spent years
creating a vast website,
thrivemovement.com, that
brings it all together
and makes the information
and what we can do about it
accessible to everyone.
Here you have your very
own navigator module
to go deeper into the main
subjects covered in the film.
Code, problem, and solutions.
You can study
strategies and tactics,
and connect with others to
take high leverage actions.
-Every fact stated in this
film has been independently
verified, and the reference
is on our website.
This sector navigator
facilitates whole systems
thinking that recognizes
that actions in one area
impact all the others.
The center of the
sector navigator
is worldview because
it determines
how we experience
everything that
happens within and around us.
In every sector you'll find
critical issues, resources,
group strategies, and
individual actions
to peacefully and productively
effect real change.
Our resource tree will link you
to the people, organizations,
and media that we
most recommend to help
you get more fully
educated and engaged.
I was encouraged
to find that there
are a minimum number of actions
which, working together,
can tip the scales.
It's not endless.
Once we see the big picture,
we'll look at what each of us
can do to help accomplish it.
Let's take a look at
the strategic anecdotes
to their economic domination.
We need to stop any
more bailouts of banks
or corporations, dismantle
the Federal Reserve,
withdraw taxpayer support
from central banking
agencies such as the
IMF and World Bank,
allow development of
alternative currencies
and independent banks, and
refuse international taxes.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: Now, on that website
are people contributing
as to what's going on in
their local communities
on a local level?
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Right.
Absolutely.
The point about having
these big strategies
is so that-- For me, anything
electoral or legislative
has to have campaign
finance reform.
That's a prerequisite, so that
we can then elect officials
who actually would represent,
and so that we can say to them,
will you stop all bailouts, will
you participate in these larger
strategies that
we've identified?
But that's kind of
through your politicians
that those sorts
of things happen.
Whereas, just personally,
what can I do-- You know,
the thing about this
pyramid of control
is that it relies on-- the
real power's in the base.
And that's where the people are.
It requires our participation.
This entire plan is based
on our participation.
So when we understand it
and withdraw from it--
And my strong belief is that
the most leveraged power we have
is where we keep and
how we spend our money.
Because in keeping our
money in the banks--
that because of fractional
reserve, which we do
describe well on the
website and in the movie,
our money's leveraged 10 times.
So if you put in $100 it's
$1,000, really, effectively,
of lending power that
you're giving the bank.
So when you bank with
a centralized bank.
Bank of America, Wells Fargo,
Union Bank of California,
all numbers of them-- and
those are listed on our website
also-- basically, you are
funding these mega corporations
that are causing
all of the damage.
And so--
>>LISA: So what you do you?
You keep the cash
under your mattress?
>>CARTER GAMBLE:
Local banks have
the same fractional
reserve-- they're
part of the same
Federal Reserve system,
but what happens is that they
make their loans locally,
so that in your own
community, providing loans
to local businesses, and
homeowners, and car loans,
or whatever the people,
the infrastructure
of your own community, needs.
So that when you
take your money out
of a bank, a centralized
bank, and into a local bank
or community credit
union, you can,
literally, unfund
the problem and fund
the solution all in one move.
>>LISA: That is very important.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: And at
thrivemovement.com you can,
under Solutions, you can
type in your zip code
and find a local bank near you.
>>LISA: Brilliant.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: And
we also print out
what are the questions to
ask a local bank to make sure
that it is, in fact, investing
in its own community.
>>LISA: More personalized
attention that way, anyway,
when you know your
local bankers.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Absolutely.
And I think that that's
one of the things.
The other thing is where
you spend your money.
It really matters because it
sends a message, you know,
and I think it's
one of the things
that we have to
come to terms with.
Right now, as taxpayers we have
a lot of blood on our hands.
That's the fact of what's
happening in our name
here all over the planet.
And so the dollars we spend
that are in our control
really do send a message.
Is it OK with you
what this corporation
is doing around the
world or is it not?
So when you participate
locally and take responsibility
for that, it makes
a big difference.
And this thing about getting
informed and speaking up,
I just-- I want to speak
to because, you know,
it takes a lot.
It's an uncomfortable
process to be
at in this pivotal time in
human history because some of us
have to speak up.
A lot of people
are engaged in it,
and there's a lot to talk about.
And we need to get
these conversations out
into the open.
And there will always
be those who resist it
and make it difficult
to talk about.
And so, I think finding,
you know, watching "THRIVE"
in a group, make a
community event out of it.
>>LISA: That's a great idea.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Have it so that
you have other people that are
aware--
>>LISA: Supportive, yes.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: --and can
be supportive with you.
I think that those
support systems
are really important
as we get out there.
>>LISA: Yeah, it keeps
you accountable, too.
It helps you from going back to
sleep, or into the denial phase
that we're meant to be in.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Right,
and I think also--
the other thing
I want to mention
is that there are tools
for finding-- really
exploring your own purpose.
Because like you said in
the very beginning, when
you know your own purpose and
what your part is in this,
then it becomes effortless
on a certain level
just because it's so clear.
>>LISA: Yes.
There is a great
clip-- there are
a lot of the visuals
in this clip give us
a visual representation of what
the future would look like.
We don't have that, and you've
done such an amazing job
in this film of putting
together, visually,
what it can look like.
Let's take a look at this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-I believe that having a
clear picture of our potential
is as important as uncovering
what stands in its way.
So I want to take you to a
possible world of the future.
It's a world the
elite would have
you believe is an
impossible pipe dream,
but I'm convinced
it's a world that
is utterly within our grasp.
We can create a world
where people can thrive,
where we can feel
safe and secure.
The air, water,
and food are clean.
A world where communities
are capable of producing
their own energy and food,
and trade is open and fair.
Rather than focusing
on punishment,
instead, justice restores
lives and losses.
Insurance pays doctors
to keep people healthy.
Education is voluntary,
serving the needs
of individuals instead
of corporations.
We get honest feedback
from independent media.
There are no subsidies
and no bail outs.
Imagine that with an
honest money system, little
or no taxes, and low
electric and fuel bills
you would have the money to
pay off your home and car,
and be free to save and invest.
You would enjoy more wealth,
freedom, and security.
All while working the
same or probably less.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: Is that true?
Could we really do that?
>>GAMBLE: I've been working
with some of the economists who
appear in the movie
and on the website,
and I would say, on
average, their estimates are
that with an honest money system
and the free energy devices
set free, that we would
have between six and 10
times the amount of
assets and income
that we have right now not
working any harder, probably
less.
So imagine-- each
person, imagine
what that would be
like for your life.
And all of a sudden, you're
making five times as much
and not working harder.
Plus you've got enough
money in the bank
that you can help people out,
you can choose your schools,
and what you invest in.
You can start up
your creative idea--
it's hard to even imagine
because we've gotten so used
to this scarcity worldview that
it seems like our problems are
just how are we
going to-- I mean,
our solutions are only how are
we going to deal with that.
>>LISA: Have you seen this
working in small pockets,
in small communities.
Have you seen it working?
>>GAMBLE: Well, there's a
group called the Economic
Freedom of the World Forum, and
they put out an annual report--
they have for
decades-- that tracks
the correlation
between prosperity
and economic and social freedom.
And it's an absolute
correlation.
The more economic
freedom that you--
the more economic and social
freedom that you have,
the safer you're going to be,
the happier you're going to be,
the more prosperous
you're going to be.
A good example of how
freedom works is just
in a relationship,
like in a family,
or at a shopping center
where you're looking
at, usually, a very
together situation,
which was created
by a free entity.
And the rows are
well taken care of,
and the gardens are well
taken care of, and so forth.
So these are glimpses.
I mean, if you look
into your own life
and see what decisions don't
you want to be able to make,
it's hard to come up with any.
Because that's where that basic
sense of an economy comes.
If you're actually free
to make those decisions,
then the naturally honest
and effective businesses
rise to the top.
These big, crooked
banks would have
been out of business
a long time ago.
You wouldn't have taxpayer
subsidies to Chevron
when they've just had the
most successful quarters
in the history of the planet.
We just got it
turned upside down.
>>LISA: Right, and
that-- awareness
is also very important.
But I really want
to see it working.
I want to see what are
the practical solutions?
What can we do?
This clip here shows some
very, very practical solutions.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-We can't do everything at once.
I envision three
overlapping stages
of the solutions process.
In stage one, we bring as
much integrity as possible
to our current systems.
If we cut the US
military budget in half,
it would still roughly
equal the defense spending
of the entire rest of the world.
Between that and getting
rid of the Federal Reserve,
over a trillion dollars
a year would be freed,
enough to feed
everyone on our planet,
deal with social issues,
and heal our environment.
Many people believe that
widespread starvation
and poverty are inevitable.
But compared to war,
eliminating poverty
and restoring the
environment are cheap.
According to Lester Brown's
Earth Policy Institute,
it would take under
$200 billion a year
to restore the
Earth's environment
and meet global social goals.
But this stage
isn't the end goal
of the liberty perspective.
While stage one has a
lot of the compassion
typically associated with
a liberal democrat agenda,
stage two reflects
much of the wisdom
of the traditional
conservative worldview.
In stage two, we shrink
government's role
to protect individual
liberty and stewarding
things we share in
common, like ecosystems,
and the airwaves we
use to communicate.
As the system gains integrity
and we move to sound currency,
people will have
enough money to have
more control over everything
that affects them.
Stage three grows out of
the increasing freedom
that people gain in
stages one and two
as they have more
money and more time.
There is no involuntary
tax, and therefore,
no involuntary governance.
There's no monopoly on force.
There are rules but no rulers.
Rigorously protecting
individual rights
turns out to be key for
honoring our interdependence.
We can be distinct and
unified at the same time.
As Utopian as this
can sound at first,
I've been thrilled to see how
much practical thinking has
been done to deal
with tough issues
like health care,
crime, and education.
These three stages
validate the best
of both the liberal and
conservative perspectives
that have divided
us for so long,
and then reconcile them at a
new level around non-violation,
a core ethic we all share.
Stage three honors
human incentive
and finally includes the rights
of not just many, not just
most, but everyone.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: It goes on
in the movie to show
more images, and more images.
It's so positive to get that
information into the reticular
activating system and
put it back out there.
It really is powerful.
It's a feel good
part of the movie--
and I appreciate that
you put that-- how did
you come up with those visuals?
Just curious.
How did you come up with that,
that hasn't been created yet?
>>GAMBLE: Well, we had
a wonderful 2D animator
named Michelle Enimark, a
young lady on the east coast.
And we shared with her
our vision of this world.
And then she, actually,
collaborated with our 3D people
who created this whole
kind of revolving world.
>>LISA: There actually--
There are some societies
out there like that, and they
are fully self sustainable,
non-reliant on outside
resources whatsoever.
But how could we get that
on a global level, really?
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Well,
I think, starting
in our own communities, I
think, as well as developing
these other larger strategies.
But for me, what's so exciting
is this notion of the stages.
I think that we've been-- I was
for a long time sort of trapped
in thinking I better
just try to focus
on what can be fixed right here,
right now, without actually
having a bigger vision of
what's actually possible.
And what I realized is that with
this notion of true liberty,
like really, not
just majority rule.
You know, we had an
experience where we live,
in northern California, where
there was a moth spray program
coming down through--
Actually, George Bush, Sr.
had earmarked--
>>GAMBLE: Junior.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: Junior, yeah,
had earmarked $300 million
for a spray, an
aerial spray assault,
supposedly, for this
fruit-infesting light brown
apple moth.
Anyway, it was
filled with toxins.
And it started in
Monterey, and it
was going to spray
millions of people
throughout northern California.
And we used a solution
model, that we'll
be talking more about,
that's available
at thrivemovement.com, to
help the communities organize.
And one of the things
that we-- and we
were able to effectively stop
this program in six months.
And in fact, when we subpoenaed
some of the information
behind the scenes,
one of the things
that we saw was a
correspondence that said,
we had anticipated some
resistance from Santa Cruz
but we didn't know it
would be so well organized.
So anyway, the point
is that communities
can organize both
to stop the problems
and to create the solutions.
And one of the things
about the stages
is that it gives a chance to
have-- It's like a compass.
If you want to sail to
Hawaii, you don't just
get there in a day, but
it's really important
to remember that where
you're going is Hawaii.
And I think that's the-- For
me, the thing about liberty--
And what happened
during the moth spray
is that there was one
point where somebody said,
we should just get
it on the ballot
and have it be that people
could vote on whether or not
we want to have this spray.
And we said, that's like
voting on whether or not
it's OK to be raped.
It is not all right.
When we did the
work, we found out
that there were
endocrine-disrupting toxins,
the carcinogens-- I mean,
this was lethal spray
that was coming down.
And the notion of a
majority rule vote, suddenly
had me have the experience of
the limits of majority rule.
Even though it's the
best system that we've
had so far-- democracy--
I came to-- I
had to come to
grips with the fact
that that's different than
freedom and the opportunity
to thrive for everyone.
And what about the people who've
been on that end of the stick
all this time?
And so we started to do
much more exploration
about a different
level of liberty.
Sort of like Hawaii.
What if you actually
wanted a system
where everybody had
a chance to thrive,
and where you didn't
think about the majority
would rule even if
it meant what they
ruled was to impose
these systems
and toxins on each
other that were lethal?
And so we've sort of backed--
so our stages come backwards
from that view, that
ultimate vision,
and we start with
where are we now.
And where we are now is we have
a completely corrupt system
and so many people who have
been disenfranchised from it
that we need to help
those right now who
are in that position, while we
cut the Pentagon budget, get
this money system out-- the
whole Federal Reserve out
of the way so that
there can actually
be more money for people, so
that the role of government
can then be limited
to protecting
individual rights, which
is what it was intended
to do in the first place.
So anyway, the point is, by
having these strategies what's
emerged for us is
really principles
rather than politics.
>>LISA: Well, you
think about how many
places in our communities
right now that that spraying is
taking place, that the
chemtrails are taking place.
And what can we
really do about it?
What are you doing about this
in your own lives, personally?
How do you live differently
knowing all that you know?
>>GAMBLE: Well, we
live in the country.
We have an organic
garden and orchard.
We have access to
our own clean water,
and the-- close to
90% of our electricity
is supplied by solar now.
And I look forward to that
being free energy in the future.
And we've gotten to
know our neighbors,
and we have a
neighborhood association.
And most of them have
watched "THRIVE,"
and we're encouraging people
in their neighborhoods
to organize for the worst
that may happen because we're
looking at potential
financial collapse,
we're looking at
food collapse, we're
looking at environmental
collapse, and so forth.
To plan as best as
possible, individually
and as communities, for
that, and then do everything
you can to make sure
that that doesn't happen.
>>LISA: But how would you
plan for that in a community?
Like give me an example of
what your neighborhood's doing.
>>GAMBLE: Well, to organize
around who has access to water?
Who has access to food?
How would we protect
ourselves if marauders are out
and there ends up being
violence, and so forth?
How can we use
what we can provide
to take care of people
in our community?
Fortunately, in Santa
Cruz, we have access
to one of the
largest natural foods
growing areas in the country.
But in major cities where they
don't have access to that,
it could be a
significant problems.
The main thing, I think, is
for people to get out of debt
as much as they possibly
can, have some supplies.
And then, really get
to know your neighbors,
and be creating old fashioned
communities where people--
not old fashioned
technology, but old fashioned
in the sense of we
actually know each other,
we're building trust.
We know how we're going to
help take care of each other
if and when we need to
because that's useful
no matter what happens.
>>LISA: I'm
curious-- I'm sorry--
why would you say to get out
of debt before you would say
to maintain your own
personal survival?
Why would you say that?
>>GAMBLE: Well, just because
the more in debt you are,
the more you can be controlled.
And those people who
are losing their houses
through these financial
schemes are experiencing
very quickly-- They
thought it was their home,
but it turns out no, the
bank, who didn't put up
any money for that loan,
actually took your home.
So these are the kinds of scams
that are getting exposed now.
>>CARTER GAMBLE: And
it is one of the things
that we want to be providing.
At thrivemovement.com we have
something called critical mass
actions.
You know, the safety and
effectiveness of numbers.
So that if a million
people sign up
to do an audit and end
to the Federal Reserve,
that's different than 100.
And so you can sign
up and say, well,
when a million people have
signed up I'm in, or something.
One thing I want to talk
about on a local level
is what Catherine
Austin Fitts-- she
has Solari, which is a
fabulous organization.
And one of the things she's
gone around and set up
in some communities is
a way where, let's say,
one person has credit card
debt and another person
has money to invest.
So the person in
the neighborhood
pays off the credit card--
the person with money
pays off the credit card
debt and then the debt
becomes between the
people in the community.
And maybe it's 5% rather than
17%, which is a good investment
amount, and it makes it
doable for the person.
Or another thing that
she's come up with--
>>LISA: That's a great idea.
>>CARTER GAMBLE:
--these mutual funds
where, let's say, we invest in
our local Boys & Girls Club,
or something like that, so that
the better that a program does,
then you get financial
return on that.
So rather than requiring these
local businesses that really
help our communities go
out to these crummy banks
and get their loans and
give them all their money,
instead, you can do that with
local community members, one
to another.
And people are doing that.
And Solari's an example of that.
And all of those are
listed on our website,
and people can tell us--
>>LISA: Can they add?
>>CARTER GAMBLE: --about others.
Yeah, absolutely, so that we
can hear-- and that's what
the app is going to do also.
It's going to really help
people connect with each other
because our intention
is to really empower
a self-creating movement.
We're just two of us.
What are we doing?
We made "THRIVE," and
we're getting it out there
in every way that we can.
That's our contribution.
And now it's to have people
get to know each other,
find out from each other all
that's going on out there.
>>LISA: And set up a plan,
too, within your family
or within community,
what you can
do in the event of a
disaster, a natural disaster
or a financial disaster.
There's a group that I
know in our community that
has a rolling fund.
So one family will
get this $500 a month.
And then, if they need
to purchase something
that's major, or something, and
then they will pay it forward.
And each person puts
in $500 into the pot,
and one family takes
it for that month.
And the next money you put it
into the pot, and the family
takes that.
So if they have something
that they haven't
been able to get to,
like a medical concern,
or something that
they need to purchase,
they get that chunk
of money every month,
or once a month within the
year to be able to make that.
There's so many
different systems
like this around that people
are starting to create out
of need to create
those types of things
because our other systems
are, obviously, not working.
I'm curious.
Do you think that
this financial crisis,
devastation would take effect
in our children's future,
in our children's children's--
How far out is this that
we're looking?
>>GAMBLE: Well, I think
we're in it right now.
And several billion
people on the planet
would agree that it's
a disaster right now.
>>LISA: Is it going to get worse
is what I guess I'm asking?
>>GAMBLE: Unfortunately,
I'm convinced
it's going to get worse
before it gets better.
You hear one corporate media
news show after another saying,
well, we think there's
signs of recovery.
And they'll pull out some
little doctored detail,
but there's no sound
economic reason whatsoever
why printing
trillions of dollars
and giving them to
the bankers is somehow
going to help a real
economy re-emerge.
That's why I'm
encouraging people
to not only prepare
for that, but keep
building the organic, wholesome
systems, economic systems,
trade systems, energy systems,
communications systems,
and so forth that we would
want to see, like that vision.
There's so many people
building those systems already
because when the old system
crumbles, and it will.
It cannot survive.
It is a confidence game.
It's a con game,
like our economy,
there's nothing behind
the dollar anymore.
It's just the
confidence of people,
and that's just about gone.
So as that comes
down, if we've already
got these other systems
emerging, which is what I see,
then it will have the freedom
to take place rather than go
into the sort of
police state that
is planned for us in
that kind of disaster.
>>LISA: Well there's a lot of
support behind the solutions
here.
There's a final clip
that I want to show you
that just kind of
sums everything up
for us with many great
global leaders talking
about solutions.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-In order to heal
the world, we have
to start telling a different
story to ourselves.
We have to start engaging in
a different story with others.
It's our collective story
that manifests as the world.
-Humanity is now in a very
interesting evolutionary phase
in which we move from hostile,
aggressive competition, which
is the nature of young species,
into a more mature mode
of cooperation, collaboration.
-There's no question in
this country that money,
that capital is being
increasingly concentrated
in the hands of a few.
And those who are so powerful
are concentrating it further.
But there is a force
that's more powerful,
and that's the
power of the people.
When we look at the
crises now, it is so easy
to fall out of love with love.
It is so easy to get
pessimistic and desperate.
But from my
perspective, the crisis
has matured to
the point of being
on the threshold
of mass awakening.
And that feeling inside
me gives me the vitality
to know that no matter
how small what I'm doing
looks to me, in the face
of these huge problems,
that the impulse of
evolution is not small.
And when it's in everybody
who's waking up, it's huge.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
The more people that know
about it, the better.
Yes.
And you agree, I'm sure.
>>GAMBLE: I do.
And we're thrilled to see
that millions of people
have already seen the movie.
And it's going viral.
Now that it's free
on the internet,
it's going viral
all over the place.
I just wanted to comment a
little bit about the solutions
orientation before we wrap up
because when the movie first
came out, at first,
some people on the right
were disturbed that
we had some people
on the left in the movie.
And people on the
left were disturbed
that we might be a right-wing
movie, or something like that.
And like Kimberly said before,
this is not a political movie.
It's about principles
that transcend politics.
And fortunately,
what's happening now--
because we really
set out to create--
to empower a self-creating
movement around the world--
is Thrive solutions groups
are spontaneously springing up
in cities all over this
country, and in other countries
around the world on their own.
And then, using the
Thrive solutions model
that Kimberly mentioned
before, that we
used with the moth spray
fiasco, and it allows people
in communities to focus
on, by sector and then
by individual issue, and
what their own passion is,
and then to coordinate their
activities and their resources.
And then we can help them
link to the other cities,
by sectors and by resources.
>>LISA: Wow.
You really have
covered a lot of it.
That's very, very
important that model.
So you could see how it works.
It's interactive.
You can-- it leads you
to different places.
That's a very in-depth
model with a lot of layers.
Thank you both.
Thank you both so much.
My goal here was to
bring about awareness
and to bring about
the visuals that
support the hope
into the future.
More than just hope, but things
that are practical solutions.
And I really, really, deeply
appreciate you doing this film.
Thank you so much.
>>GAMBLE: You are welcome.
There's no better
example than this
of the power of
independent media.
So thanks for the opportunity.
>>CARTER GAMBLE:
Thank you very much.
>>LISA: You are absolutely
right about that.
Thank you both very much.
Thank you both very-- well, all
of you very much for watching.
Watch the movie.
You can see it at
thrivemovement.com.
And thank you so
much for watching.